
---
slug: FAQ
title: FAQ
authors: [sxbt69]
tags: [Questions, Troubleshooting]
---

# FAQ

### How can I try 10101?

You can try out the public beta immediately by downloading it from [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=finance.get10101.app) if you're using an Android smartphone, and from [TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/WhwnPUh8) if you're using an iPhone.

10101 is a mobile application. It is not possible to access it from your browser.


### Why "10101"?

10101 is pronounced "ten ten one", and it means 21 in binary. Just a pun!
There will never be more than 21 million bitcoins!

### What is 10101?

It's a self-custodial app that lets you do more with your Sats!

It incorporates an on-chain Bitcoin wallet that allows you to send and receive sats, and the ability to trade freely without having to entrust your funds to a third party (not even us!).

Once your 1010 wallet has been funded, you'll be able to open your first transaction immediately. By doing so, you will also open your DLC channel*, which will enable you to carry out further orders in the range authorized by its size.


### Will 10101 manage the funds for me?

No, at no time will 10101 hold your bitcoin.

Our application makes a point of respecting and educating users in the principles of self-custody: you hold your own keys, you remain responsible for your wallet and funds, and you retain full control throughout your experience.

That's why you need to make sure you back up your recovery phrase and keep it safe.



### On-chain? Off-chain?

On-chain is a term used to designate the traditional Bitcoin network: It is used for its high level of security and verifiability, and allows large amounts of money to be sent and received for a fee.

Off-chain is a term used to qualify all operations taking place inside a DLC channel (or any other Layer 2 protocol) before it is closed. In the example of 10101, if you close a trade in profits, you'll see your off-chain balance grow.

You can withdraw these funds to your on-chain wallet by closing your channel at any time.


### How is it possible to trade directly from my wallet, without a platform?

This is made possible thanks to Discreet Log Contracts (DLCs).

A DLC is a multisig transaction output funded by two parties, which can be unilaterally spent by either one according to a future event _external_ to the blockchain. One or more oracles are used as trusted, oblivious third parties, as they attest to the outcome of the event and determine how the funds will be split.

Applied to trading using 10101, a DLC is set up with the user providing part of the collateral and their counterparty in the trade providing the rest. In the case of BTCUSD perpetual swaps, the event external to the blockchain is the price of Bitcoin. The oracles eventually attest to the price and, depending on that value, the funds in the DLC can be split in a particular way, with the user realizing their PNL.

Off-chain DLCs can be seen as an additional layer built on top of Bitcoin.

If you want to learn more, we produced a series of [blog posts](https://10101.finance/blog/dlc-to-lightning-part-1) on this topic, and another one on the specific case of [trading settlements](https://10101.finance/blog/trade-settlement).


### What's the point of the recovery phrase?

Your recovery phrase (sometimes called "seed") is the only way to redeem your funds. If you've deleted the app or lost the data on your phone, you will not be able to access your funds without it. We will be unable to assist you either.

You absolutely must save it and keep it in a safe place.

In the case of 10101, this backup will enable you to restore your funds within the app from both your on-chain and off-chain wallets, as well as your transaction history and open orders (in the worst-case scenario, you will be able to request a channel closure to recover your funds on-chain).

### Do I have to run a node separately to use 10101?

You don't need to run your own node to use 10101.

It will soon be possible to connect your own node, in order to be independent and sovereign in broadcasting and receiving your transactions from your device.

### How can I fund my DLC Channel?

To fund your DLC Channel, all you have to do is to create a new trade order.

Your channel size will directly depend on this first trade.

Depending on the size of this channel, you'll be able to open larger or smaller positions in the trading section.

### Can I open several positions at the same time?

It is not yet possible to open several different positions.

### Why can I not trade with my full off-chain balance?

You will not be able to open positions covering your entire off-chain balance, as you will need to keep a reserve on your balance.

Part of this reserve must remain in your channel to keep it open. Another part is also reserved so that on-chain transaction fees can be covered, enabling you to recover your funds in any worst-case scenario.

### I got a problem with my balance or my app

Don't hesitate to get in touch with our team, who will be able to help you and answer your questions on our dedicated telegram [support channel](https://t.me/get10101/1189).

### I need guidance

You can count on our team and on the community!

Feel free to join our social channels and get in touch!

- [10101 Telegram group](https://t.me/get10101/)
- [10101 Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tentenone:matrix.org)

- [10101 Website](https://10101.finance/)
- [10101 on X](https://x.com/get10101)
- [10101 GitHub](https://github.com/get10101/10101/)
