
---
slug: FAQ
title: FAQ
authors: [sxbt69]
tags: [Questions, Troubleshooting]
---

# FAQ

### How can I try 10101?

You can try out the public beta immediately by downloading it from [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=finance.get10101.app) if you're using an Android smartphone, and from [TestFlight](https://testflight.apple.com/join/WhwnPUh8) if you're using an iPhone.

10101 is a mobile application. It is not possible to access it from your browser.

### Why "10101"?

10101 is pronounced "ten ten one", and it means 21 in binary. Just a pun!
There will never be more than 21 million bitcoins!

### What is 10101?

It's **self-custody**-first Bitcoin app that includes :
A Bitcoin wallet for sending and receiving sats on-chain, and the ability to trade financial derivatives directly from it, thanks to cutting-edge **Discreet Log Contracts** (DLCs) technology.

Once your wallet has been funded, the application will allow you to open an order directly from your wallet, thus opening your **DLC Channel**

### Will 10101 manage the funds for me?

No, at no time will 10101 hold your bitcoin.

Our application makes a point of respecting and educating users in the principles of self-custody: you hold your own keys, you remain responsible for your wallet and funds, and **you retain full control** throughout your experience.

That's why you need to make sure you back up your recovery phrase and keep it safe.

### What's the point of the recovery phrase?

Your recovery phrase (sometimes called "seed") is the only way to redeem your funds. If you've deleted the app or lost the data on your phone, you will not be able to access your funds without it. **We will be unable to assist you either.**

You absolutely must save it and keep it in a safe place.

In the case of 10101, this backup will enable you to restore your funds within the app from both your on-chain and off-chain balance, as well as your transaction history and open orders.

In the worst case scenario, you will be able to close your DLC channel after using your recovery phrase.

### Do I have to run a node separately to use 10101?

You don't have to run your own node to use our app, however, it will soon™️ be possible to connect your own node, in order to be independent and sovereign in broadcasting and receiving your transactions from your device.

### On-chain? Off-chain?

On-chain is a term used to designate the operations taking place on the traditional Bitcoin network: It is used for its high level of security and verifiability, and allows large amounts of money to be sent and received for a fee. Your on-chain balance 

Off-chain is used to describe every operations taking place between actors inside a DLC Channel (or any layer 2 protocol). While inheriting of the security of the base protocol, it allows to operate in a fast way and at very low cost, as long as the channel is kept open. By closing a channel, a settlement operation will take place on-chain, incurring fees.

In the case of 10101, you can close a position without having to close your channel. Your funds will then be displayed on your off-chain balance, allowing you to operate further trades at your convenience. At any time, you can withdraw your funds to your on-chain balance by closing your DLC Channel 

### How is it possible to trade directly from my wallet, without a platform?

This is made possible thanks to **Discreet Log Contracts** (DLCs).

A DLC is a multisig transaction output funded by two parties, which can be unilaterally spent by either one according to a future event _external_ to the blockchain. One or more oracles are used as trusted, oblivious third parties, as they attest to the outcome of the event and determine how the funds will be split.

Applied to trading using 10101, a DLC is set up with the user providing part of the collateral and their counterparty in the trade providing the rest. In the case of BTCUSD perpetual swaps, the event external to the blockchain is the price of Bitcoin. The oracles eventually attest to the price and, depending on that value, the funds in the DLC can be split in a particular way, with the user realizing their PNL.

Off-chain DLCs can be seen as an additional layer built on top of Bitcoin.

If you want to learn more, we produced a series of [blog posts](https://10101.finance/blog/dlc-to-lightning-part-1) on this topic, and another one on the specific case of [trading settlements](https://10101.finance/blog/trade-settlement).

### How is the DLC channel funded?
DLC channels are bilaterally funded.

We, on our side, will always put the necessary margin to cover the quantity (number of contracts) of your trade with a x2 leverage.

Examples:
- If the **opening price is $40.000** and you open a **$2.000 position** with a **x4 leverage**, your margin is **0,0125BTC**, ours is **0,025BTC**. 
**Total channel value : 0,037BTC**
- If the **opening price is $40.000** and you open a **$2.000 position** with a **x1 leverage**, your margin is **0,05BTC**, ours is **0,025BTC**. 
**Total channel value : 0,075BTC**
If the **opening price is $40.000** and you open **a $2.000 position** with a **x2 leverage**, the channel will be perfectly balanced as both parties will have a **0,025BTC margin**, for a **total channel value of 0,05BTC**

Conclusion : your margin in BTC will depend on the opening price, quantity, and on the leverage you choose. Ours will always remain relative to the opening price and quantity you have selected

**As your first trade defines the configuration of your channel, it's important to take the above elements into account when assessing your payout expectations.**
 

If this explanation isn't clear enough for you, please let us know!

We'll be publishing a detailed article on the financing of DLC channels and trading orders shortly.

### How can I open a DLC Channel?

By creating your first order, you will automatically create your DLC Channel with 10101.
You can close your position, but your channel will remain until you decide to close it.

Depending on the size of this channel, you'll be able to open larger or smaller positions in the trading section, or hold more or less synthetic currency in your wallet (to be released)

### Can I open several positions at the same time?

It is not yet possible to open several different positions.
However, it is in our plans to make it possible to resize your position at any time, without being able to change the leverage.

If you want to resize it outside of the limits allowed by your DLC Channel, it will require a DLC channel resizing

### Can I resize my DLC Channel (splicing)?
It is not yet possible to open several different positions.
However, it is in our plans to make it possible to resize your channel at any time for a fee (it will require on-chain operations), making it more cost-effective than closing and reopening a position.

### Why can I not trade with my full off-chain balance?

You will not be able to open positions covering your entire off-chain balance, as you will need to keep a reserve.

Part of this reserve must remain so that on-chain transaction fees can be covered, enabling you to recover your funds in any worst-case scenario.

### Can I fund my 10101 wallet using Lightning?

It is no longer possible, with our new version, to fund your wallet nor your DLC Channel using an Lightning.
However, we intend to make this possible in a different way to what has been done before. Stay tuned!

### I need help / troubleshooting

Don't hesitate to get in touch with our team, who will be able to help you and answer your questions on our dedicated telegram [support channel](https://t.me/get10101/1189).

### I need guidance

You can count on our team and on the community!

Feel free to join our social channels and get in touch!

- [10101 Telegram group](https://t.me/get10101/)
- [10101 Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tentenone:matrix.org)

- [10101 Website](https://10101.finance/)
- [10101 on X](https://x.com/get10101)
- [10101 GitHub](https://github.com/get10101/10101/)
